# sms_classification
classification of sms messages 



# Bayes Theorem
is one of the earliest probabilistic inference algorithms. It was developed by Reverend Bayes (which he used to try and infer the existence of God no less), and still performs extremely well for certain use cases.
It's best to understand this theorem using an example. Let's say you are a member of the Secret Service and you have been deployed to protect the Democratic presidential nominee during one of his/her campaign speeches. Being a public event that is open to all, your job is not easy and you have to be on the constant lookout for threats. So one place to start is to put a certain threat-factor for each person. So based on the features of an individual, like the age, sex, and other smaller factors like whether the person is carrying a bag, looks nervous, etc., you can make a judgment call as to whether that person is a viable threat.
If an individual ticks all the boxes up to a level where it crosses a threshold of doubt in your mind, you can take action and remove that person from the vicinity. Bayes Theorem works in the same way, as we are computing the probability of an event (a person being a threat) based on the probabilities of certain related events (age, sex, presence of bag or not, nervousness of the person, etc.).
One thing to consider is the independence of these features amongst each other. For example if a child looks nervous at the event then the likelihood of that person being a threat is not as much as say if it was a grown man who was nervous. To break this down a bit further, here there are two features we are considering, age AND nervousness. Say we look at these features individually, we could design a model that flags ALL persons that are nervous as potential threats. However, it is likely that we will have a lot of false positives as there is a strong chance that minors present at the event will be nervous. Hence by considering the age of a person along with the 'nervousness' feature we would definitely get a more accurate result as to who are potential threats and who aren't.
This is the 'Naive' bit of the theorem where it considers each feature to be independent of each other which may not always be the case and hence that can affect the final judgement.
In short, Bayes Theorem calculates the probability of a certain event happening (in our case, a message being spam) based on the joint probabilistic distributions of certain other events (in our case, the appearance of certain words in a message). We will dive into the workings of Bayes Theorem later in the mission, but first, let us understand the data we are going to work with.
